<p>We conducted an analysis of historical sales data for computer games from 1980-2016 to identify factors that influence game sales, determine the main trends in the gaming industry, which are likely to affect computer game sales in 2017 at the "Streamchik" store.</p><h3>Summary of Completed Tasks</h3><h4>1. Overview of the Source Data</h4><ul><li>The necessary libraries for the research were imported, and technical parameters were set.</li><li>The data was read. Various options for obtaining input data were provided.</li><li>A preliminary evaluation of the problems present in the source data was given.</li><li>Histograms of the distribution of values were plotted for each numerical column for the initial assessment of their spread and to identify general trends, such as which years saw the most game releases and what scores critics most often give games, etc.</li></ul><h4>2. Data Preprocessing</h4><ul><li>The steps that needed to be taken during the data preprocessing stage, based on previously identified issues, were briefly described.</li><li>Columns were renamed: all column names in the data were converted to lowercase.</li><li>Missing values in all numerical columns were handled using the following methods:<ul><li>Removing rows containing missing values.</li><li>Using data obtained from web page parsing corresponding to the type of missing value.</li><li>Filling in missing values with random values obtained from a truncated Gaussian normal distribution that reflects the distribution around the mean and standard deviation in the source column.</li><li>Replacing missing values with one of the existing unique values in that column.</li></ul></li><li>Data types of columns were changed where it had not already been done or was necessary.</li><li>The following columns were added:<ul><li><code>release_period</code> - a small time period in which critic ratings for the game would be most stable.</li><li><code>total_sales</code> - the total number of sales in all regions.</li></ul></li><li>The distribution in numerical columns was checked and corrected using the following methods:<ul><li>The method of removing outlier values using the "three-sigma rule."</li></ul></li><li>A check was performed for explicit and implicit duplicates, and rows that duplicated each other were eliminated.</li></ul><h4>3. Data Analysis</h4><ul><li>Further analysis was done on how many games were released each year.<ul><li>There was a gradual increase in the number of games released each year, from ~1990 to 2012. A strong upward trend in sales among all gaming platforms was observed from 2000 onwards.</li></ul></li><li>The relevant period in the data was determined.<ul><li>The relevant period in the data was taken from 2000 to 2016. However, for a more comprehensive analysis of certain dependencies, more up-to-date data was taken for the period from 2013 to 2016.</li></ul></li><li>The typical "life span" of gaming platforms was calculated.<ul><li>The average life span of one generation of gaming platforms is <strong>6.6 years</strong>.</li></ul></li><li>The platforms with the highest total sales were identified. Box plots of game sales values for platforms with different numbers of sales were examined, as were those among the top selling platforms.<ul><li>The predicted ranking of gaming platforms by profitability in 2017 was:<ol><li><code>Playstation 4</code>;</li><li><code>Xbox One</code>;</li><li><code>Nintendo 3DS</code>;</li><li><code>PC</code>;</li><li><code>PlayStation Vita</code>;</li><li><code>Playstation 3</code>.</li></ol></li></ul></li><li>The correlation between user ratings and total game sales, as well as between critic ratings and total game sales, was examined among all platforms and among the <code>PS4</code> platform. Based on observations from these graphs, their explanations were provided, and factors influencing the degree of correlation between the same variables among other gaming platforms were examined.<ul><li>The correlation coefficient between critic ratings and total game sales for all data was <code>0.25</code>.</li><li>The correlation coefficient between critic ratings and total game sales for the <code>PS4</code> platform was <code>0.32</code>.</li><li>The correlation coefficient between user ratings and total game sales for all data was <code>0.11</code>.</li><li>The correlation coefficient between user ratings and total game sales for the <code>PS4</code> platform was <code>0.02</code>.</li></ul></li><li>The following distribution histograms were constructed, analyzed, and observations on them were justified:<ul><li>The distribution of the number of released games depending on their genre.</li><li>The distribution of the average number of game sales depending on their genre for the 2013-2016 time period</li></ul></li></ul><h4>4. Creating User Profiles</h4><ul><li>Using data from 2013 to 2016, the following graphs were created and user profiles were formed for each region:<ul><li><p>Pie charts showing the distribution of <em>video game sales</em> in each region;</p></li><li><p>Pie charts showing the distribution of the most popular games in certain genres;</p></li><li><p>Pie charts showing the distribution of game ratings according to ESRB, rating the target age group of consumers in each region;</p></li></ul><ul><li><p>As a result, the following gamer profiles were formed:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Profile of the target consumer in North America</strong></p><ul><li>Plays on <code>Xbox One</code> or <code>PS4</code></li><li>Enjoys games in the <code>Action</code> or <code>Shooter</code> genres</li><li>Age group: 17 years and older</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Profile of the target consumer in Europe</strong></p><ul><li>Plays on <code>PS4</code></li><li>Enjoys games in the <code>Action</code> or <code>Shooter</code> genres</li><li>Age group: 17 years and older</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Profile of the target consumer in Japan</strong></p><ul><li>Plays on <code>PlayStation 4, 3, Vita</code> or <code>Nintendo 3DS</code></li><li>Enjoys games in the <code>Action</code>, <code>Role-Playing</code>, and <code>Adventure</code> genres</li><li>Age group: 13 years and older</li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Profile of the target consumer in other regions</strong></p><ul><li>Plays on <code>PS4, PS3</code> or <code>Xbox One, Xbox 360</code></li><li>Enjoys games in the <code>Action</code> and <code>Shooter</code> genres</li><li>Age group: either under 13 years old or 17 years and older</li></ul></li></ul></li></ul></li></ul><h4>5. Hypothesis Testing</h4><ul><li>The following hypotheses were put forward:<ol><li>The average user ratings for the Xbox One and PC platforms are the same;<ul><li>H<sub>0</sub>: <em>The average user ratings for the Xbox One and PC platforms are equal</em></li><li>H<sub>1</sub>: <em>The average user ratings for the Xbox One and PC platforms are not equal</em></li></ul><ul><li>As a result, the null hypothesis H<sub>0</sub> was accepted.</li></ul></li><li>The average user ratings for the Action and Sports genres are different;<ul><li>H<sub>0</sub>: <em>The average user ratings for the <code>Action</code> and <code>Sports</code> genres are equal</em></li><li>H<sub>1</sub>: *The average user ratings for the <code>Action</code> and <code>Sports</code> are not equal</li><li>As a result, hypothesis H<sub>1</sub> was accepted, hypothesis H<sub>0</sub> was rejected</li></ul></li></ol></li></ul><h3>Key Patterns for Building a Sales Forecast for "Streamchik" Video Game Store in 2017</h3><blockquote><p>According to the data, there has been a decrease in the number of video games sold on each platform in the last few years.</p></blockquote><p><strong>Implication:</strong></p><p><em>Since there is a global trend of declining profitability from sales of console and PC games, it may be worth considering for "Streamchik" to explore alternative niches in the gaming market. For example, the mobile gaming and app market is currently experiencing its boom, similar to how it was with portable and regular consoles starting from the 2000s.</em></p><blockquote><p>According to the data, sales of video games and the most popular genres of these games are highly dependent on the region where the potential consumer is located.</p></blockquote><p><strong>Implication:</strong></p><p><em>When planning for the upcoming year, it is important to use descriptions of regional user profiles. This will allow for a more rational distribution of funds towards purchasing games for specific platforms and may also result in an increase in the number of target customers.</em></p><blockquote><p>According to the data, investing money in certain genres will not have a very positive impact on the final profit.</p></blockquote><p><strong>Implication:</strong></p><p><em>Investing in more dynamic games is worth it. These are games such as <code>Shooter</code>, <code>Platform</code>, <code>Action</code>, and <code>Racing</code>. Firstly, there are fewer of these types of games, and their quality is relatively higher than indie games or arcade games. Therefore, it will be easier for users to choose a game. Secondly, as it has been found out, the target audience is mostly mature teenagers aged 17+. It is unlikely that they will be very interested in role-playing or adventure games.</em></p>

</div>
