<div style="border: 3px solid rgb(119,212,150); padding: 20px"><p>The data of Yandex.Real Estate service has been analyzed. The data is represented by an archive of real estate sales ads in St. Petersburg and neighboring towns from late 2014 to 2019. The research results will be used to build a model that predicts real estate prices.</p><h2>Summary of Completed Tasks</h2><h3>1. Data Overview, Importing Additional Libraries</h3><ul><li>Imported necessary libraries</li><li>The source data was loaded and read. The main information about them was viewed, and a general graphical summary was made for all numerical columns.</li></ul><h3>2. Data Preprocessing</h3><ul><li><p>Incorrectly named columns were renamed.</p><ul><li>column <code>city_Centers_nearest</code> -&gt; <code>city_centers_nearest</code></li></ul></li><li><p>Data types were changed in some columns.</p><ul><li>Data type in the <code>first_day_exposition</code> column was changed from <code>object</code> to <code>datetime64[ns]</code></li><li>Data type in the <code>floors_total</code> column was changed from <code>float64</code> to <code>int64</code></li><li>Data type in the <code>balcony</code> column was changed from <code>float64</code> to <code>int64</code></li></ul></li><li><p>Missing values were processed in columns where possible. The specificity of values in each of the processed columns was taken into account to decide which method to use to fill in the missing values.</p><ul><li>Column <code>is_apartment</code>. The missing values were temporarily replaced with <code>False</code>.</li><li>Column <code>balcony</code>. The missing values were replaced with <code>0</code>.</li><li>Column <code>ceiling_height</code>. The missing values were replaced with the median value for the same locality.</li><li>Column <code>floors_total</code>. The missing values were replaced with values from the <code>floor</code> column.</li><li>Column <code>living_area</code>. The missing values were filled based on the calculated average proportion of living area in apartments in St. Petersburg.</li><li>Column <code>kitchen_area</code>. The missing values were filled based on the calculated average proportion of kitchen area in apartments in St. Petersburg.</li><li>Columns with cartographic data. One ad was deleted, and additional information is required to fill in the missing values.</li></ul></li><li><p>Implicit duplicates in city and locality names were eliminated.</p><ul><li>column <code>locality_name</code>. The number of unique values was reduced from 364 to 309</li></ul></li><li><p>Corrected the distribution of values in some columns, removed anomalous values.</p><ul><li>column <code>floors_total</code>. Ads with anomalous number of floors in the building were removed.</li><li>column <code>ceiling_height</code>. The distribution of values was corrected: some values were rounded to the nearest quartile value, anomalous values were removed</li><li>column <code>total_area</code>.</li><li>column <code>last_price</code>. Ads with excessively high prices were removed.</li></ul></li></ul><h3>3. Adding columns</h3><p><strong>The following columns were added:</strong></p><ul><li>Price per square meter.</li><li>Day of the week the advertisement was published.</li><li>Month the advertisement was published.</li><li>Year the advertisement was published.</li><li>Type of floor the apartment is on (values are "first", "last", "other").</li><li>Distance to the city center in kilometers.</li></ul><h3>4. Data analysis, obtaining results</h3><p><em>Histograms were constructed for numerical columns, observations were described, and conclusions were drawn.</em></p><p><em>The following questions were investigated:</em></p><blockquote><p>How quickly were apartments sold?</p></blockquote><p><strong>Conclusion:</strong></p><p><em>The speed of selling an apartment is mostly related to the rules and deadlines for posting ads on the platform. If we talk about specific numbers, on average it takes from one and a half months to three.</em></p><blockquote><p>What factors have the greatest influence on the total value of a real estate property?</p></blockquote><p><strong>Conclusion:</strong></p><p><em>During the study, it was found that the price of a real estate property depends most strongly on the total area, living area, kitchen area, number of rooms, and also on the location of the property relative to the centers of large cities/settlements.</em></p><p><em>There is also a seasonal change in prices in the real estate market, probably related to holidays, convenient times for repairs, etc. On a weekly scale, users post and view ads approximately twice as often on weekdays than on weekends.</em></p><blockquote><p>What is the average price per square meter in the top 10 settlements/cities by number of advertisements?</p></blockquote><p><strong>Conclusion:</strong></p><p><em>Aggregating the data, conducting a visual analysis, and coming to a conclusion, the top 10 settlements/cities by number of advertisements and the average price per square meter of real estate in them are as follows:</em></p><p>Saint Petersburg -&gt; ~112,000 rubles.</p><p>Pushkin -&gt; ~103,000 rubles.</p><p>Kudrovo village -&gt; ~92,000 rubles.</p><p>Pargolovo settlement -&gt; ~90,000 rubles.</p><p>Murino settlement -&gt; ~85,000 rubles.</p><p>Shushary settlement -&gt; ~78,000 rubles.</p><p>Kolpino -&gt; ~75,000 rubles.</p><p>Gatchina -&gt; ~68,000 rubles.</p><p>Vsevolozhsk -&gt; ~68,000 rubles.</p><p>Vyborg -&gt; ~58,000 rubles.</p><blockquote><p>How does the price of real estate depend on the distance from the center of Saint Petersburg?</p></blockquote><p><strong>Conclusion:</strong></p><p><em>According to the constructed graph, the price per square meter decreases as the distance from the center of Saint Petersburg increases. In numbers, this is approximately half for every 30 kilometers from the city center.</em></p></li></ul><h3>What could lead to incomplete results?</h3><ul><li>Columns with missing values, which arose either due to the fact that some data was incorrectly loaded or are optional for users to specify.</li><li>The inability to fully analyze the correlation of cartographic variables with other parameters, due to a large number of missing values. It is likely that this is related to the poor quality of the system that automatically calculates this data.</li><li>Not very clear documentation for some columns.</li></ul><h3>Recommendations for Further Research</h3><ul><li>Use the obtained results to create a predictive machine learning model that assesses the value of real estate based on certain classification features.</li><li>Explore more current data using data preprocessing methods that were used in this study.</li><li>Consider the feasibility of alternative methods for handling anomalies, duplicates, and missing data.</li></ul></div>